INSTRUCTION MANUAL


EXECUTION OF PROGRAM
In order to execute the program go into the directory POO_FP in your terminal and type the command: make
After it´s made type into the directory cd bin/ to access the executable files ./Play and ./Create and press enter. 
./Play will begin the game application and ./Create will begin the board creator application

FOLDER INFO

/bin
	Contains the executable files
/boards
	Contains the randomly generated boards and user generated boards
/build
	Contains the object compiled files for the project
/inc
	Contains the header files for classes and helper functions
/main
	Contains the two applications source files to be compiled along with its own /build folder
/src
	Contains the source files for the classes


OBJECTIVE
The player starts off with 5 lives, 0 diamonds and 2 teleports. These numbers change throughout the game and can always be seen on the right
of the board. The objective of the game is to pass all boards without losing more lives than you have and collect the maximum amount of diamonds
before finishing the game. On each level the player will encounter different elements: monsters(M), walls(X), diamonds($), powerups(*), doors(+ when open,# when closed), 
the trace of the player (.), and the player themself (O).

Walls stop the player from going to that specific point in the board, meaning it is a perfect obstacle.

Doors let the player go from board to board. When they are closed the player cannot pass through them but as soon as the player gets a diamond a door will open.

Diamonds help the player to go from level to level. As soon as the player takes a diamond, a door opens and the player can go through it 
to the next level.  The number of diamonds in the end gives the player their score. 

Powerups let the player teleport to a random point on the board that is not occupied by any other element. Powerups stack, which means that you can 
pick up as many powerups as you want before using any one. Powerups can also be used to skip to next board (5 required). 

Monsters kill the player if the player walks into one. Every time the player walks into a monster they lose a life. If all lives are lost 
the player dies completely and the game is lost. 

The trace of the player shows the player where they have been and where they haven´t been yet on the board. 

3 Diamonds allow you to buy 1 life.

5 Powerups allow you to change to the next board after you open a door.

By toggling virus mode on and off the player can have different playing experiences. If virus mode is activated before initializing the game, the player gets a life boost of 5 points. However if Block 6 or higher, virus mode will be activated automatically and the player will get 30 extra life points as the virus mode won´t be able to deactivate.
Virus mode makes the monsters multiply intensively making this mode much more difficult. Virus mode can be turned on and off in levels 1
to 5 but is permanent in level 6. 
As the game ends the player´s lives are accounted back into diamonds (1 life is converted to 3 diamonds). 

There are also two main types of game modes, RANDOM and USER BASED. RANDOM creates random boards for the player whilst USER BASED asks the player how many boards they would like to play and allow to select from previously created boards. 



HOW TO PLAY

In order to move around the board the player has to use the QEZC keys to move diagonally and WASD or arrow keys to move horizontally and vertically:
W or up arrow is to go up, A or left arrow is to go left, S or down arrow is to go down, D or right arrow is to go right, 
Q is to go up+left, E is to go up+right, Z is to go bottom+left, C is to go bottom+right. 

Pressing T let´s the player teleport to a random square and uses 1 powerup (*).
Pressing L buys a life for 3 diamonds ($).
Pressing N skips to next board for 5 powerups (*).
Pressing V toggles virus mode.
Pressing H toggles help info in the game.
If the player wishes to terminate the game he can press K + any key in order to terminate the program. 



Happy playing!

